So, far we've been seeing the basics of
web storage, Index TV, and data storage.
But we mentioned four APIs that
today are available for us.
So the last one is the file
system API that technically is
known as file System access API, okay?
So with file system access API,
we can read and
write files in the real file
system in user's device.
There are some limitations for
example you won't be able to read
the private user folder, okay,
in Unix based systems or Windows.
So to avoid problems, security issues,
it's limited in that sort of
weird secure situations, but
despite that, the user can open a folder,
the user can open a file.
It requires user's permission, okay?
In fact, it first required
the user to pick a folder or
a file from a dialog, okay?
And after the user has picked that file or
folder from a dialog,
you can request more permissions and that
will be like a normal permission like,
hey, you already granted
permission to read that folder,
now do you wanna give written
permission so the user can write?
It's chromium-only right now
with the only exception of
Safari supporting this, but
for a private origin system.
Remember the Photoshop
example I gave you before?
So Photoshop needs a temporary storage
with files that is out of the RAM.
So far implement this API, but
not with a real file system.
So it's not implementing the file picker.
So you can request access to a private or
machine file system, and
then you can write files,
you can read files but
the user will never see the files
in the hard drive, okay?
It's like an isolated private
storage that only origin can see.
It's an asynchronous API as any modern
API we don't need to prop it, okay?
It's ready to use.
It doesn't count for the quota,
with the exception of Safari, okay?
Because with the origin
private file system,
it's like an index.db at the end, okay?
But I'm talking about the file
system access API, the standard one,
the normal one, the one that we
have in Chromium doesn't count for
the quarter because the user will save
the file, okay, in the file system.
And by the way, this API today is
chromium only, and desktop only.
Not just chromium only.
So it's not working on Android, yet, okay?
So why this API up here?
Let's see, one of the main use cases for
this is our friend VS code.
Do you know that VS code is a web app?
But it's using electron or so
it's actually wrapped in a native app.
Well, but
then be as co creative in a web version.
Not sure if we have seen that one.
It's VS code or Dev, okay?
VS code or Dev is VS code
running in your browser, okay?
But, yeah, if it's running your
browser It needs to open a folder and
the folder will be not in the cloud but
in your computer.
So how can you use your IDE
directly from the browser?
Well when you open a folder this
is the dialog you see, okay, for
example I can go and
open from data storage coffee masters,
okay, and
this is what you're going to see.
I say, use hey, do you wanna let
this decide to view the files
in that folder until you
close all tabs for this site?
And if I say yes, okay, now I can work
directly in the browser with VS code,
that was one of the main use cases,
initial use cases for this API.
It's like, hey, why do we need to wrap
VS code in a native container?
Can we just run it in the browser?
Well, the problem was we didn't have
a way to do this, the file system, okay?
So that was this in action.
On Android,
it's still also not like a use case.
So it seems like it's
low priority because it
didn't find like a real use case
where this makes sense on mobile.
So now, VS code can actually be a PWA.
In fact it is.
I can install VS code in my Mac as a PWA,
and now I have two VS Codes, I can bring
both to the same group here in my Mac and
which one is the original one?
And which one is a PWA?
Well, I should use the same
font size on both.
You don't know.
Well, maybe you can realize,
because this one has this, the menu,
it's here and not at the top,
because there is no API to actually yet
to actually define the native OS menu,
okay?
But then it's the same, and
actually it's the same code base.
So maybe you're thinking,
but the 81 is faster.
Nope, it is the same code base, okay?
So now I actually have
two Visual Studio Codes.
They have different icons.
[LAUGH] But one is the native,
in quotes version and
the other one is the PWA,
and look at this I didn't
grant the permission to
the PWA to this folder, why?
Because it's a shared storage and
permissions are also shared so
a browser tab Where PWA
has the same web client.
Remember this morning we were
talking about when do you share
storage when this is a case where
the share is a storage, okay?
And it was at this point.
Mind blowing, right?
So now I need to probably uninstall
this one because every time I will get
confused on which one am I using right but
yeah, how do you how do you tell
this is a PWA because you will
see a different menu here, okay?
So from here you can see that it's
a URL and I can open this in Chrome.
We can open this back in Chrome.
And what you won't see is like
more integration with us but
in this case there are no
such integration but
now on PWA there is a new API is
called Custom overlays controls
that will let the PWA render
content directly in the title bar.
So now it can put
the menu instead of here,
if VS Code wants,
it can put the menu directly at the top.
Okay, make sense?
So this is a quick use case to
understand the file system API really,
really quickly.
So we mentioned it doesn't count for
the quota because it's using your real
file system and as I mentioned before,
there is an extension to the API known as
Origin Private File System that is
currently only implemented in Safari.
And chrome is experimenting with it on
the fly, but it's like it's not there yet.
Okay, so Safari has the API, but
only for these private file system.
Okay, make sense?
To be honest, the API is
actually pretty straightforward.
It's not really a big deal.
So, the first step is to have
the user select a file okay and
you have the Show Open File Picker and
there is an open folder
picker as well that's the one
that VS Code was using or for
example to make an app that
makes content offline.
I don't know, you want to make an e-book
reader or something like that,
well you can let the user pick a folder,
okay, it will be your folder but
remember that folder is
public in the file system.
So if you go to the Finder or the Windows
Explorer the folder will be there okay,
with all the files, the user can put
files remove files from outside Europe
how in mind that right so
far is the only exception to that.
Then when you have that handle,
you can get the file object or
if it's a directory, a folder,
you will get another kind of handler.
It's a directory handler and
then you can loop through all the files,
you can create files.
And to read the files, it's pretty simple.
You take that object and
you call one of the processors available.
So we have a slice so you can actually,
instead of getting all the final ones,
you can catch up on a slice of it,
and then continue reading it and
stream an array buffer so
that's to read the binary file or text.
There is no JSON.
Most people expect JSON to be
there as with responses, but
he's not there so you just need to
take the text and then parse it.
Okay that's how to open a file.
How to write to an open file so
if you already open the file
then you can request written
permission and over that handle
over this one without handle,
you create the writable and
then you write the contents of the file
to the stream, and you close the file.
So not a big deal.
We are going to test this
with our project in a second.
And also you can directly
write to a new file,
in this case you don't use
the handle of an open file,
you use another file picker that
is called, Show/Save File Picker,
and then the user can pick
one file to overwrite,
or the user can type in
the name of a new file.
And you can provide some metadata, for
example, the type of file and description.
You can provide a file name,
such as the file name, but
the user is in charge of the end.
The only way that you have to
have full control of a folder and
write your own files with your
own names is when the user
granted you permission for
the whole folder.
For VS Code for example.
Which one is the native one?
[LAUGH] I think the native one
is this one because of the icon.
So here I can create a new file,
okay, and you can see hey because
this is the first time that I'm
trying to change the file hey
do you wanna give this file permission for
editing files.
Okay yeah, but if you if you saw here,
Chrome didn't actually show me
a picker for the file name.
It was the JavaScript
code that saved that file
after I've got permission to save files,
okay?
So if I want to save another one,
Now it's saving.
Okay, make sense?
And now I don't need to give
permission twice, it's the same.
If I have permission to write, okay,
you have permission to write the folder,
do whatever you want.
You can delete files with JavaScript, etc.